# Kidspell Chrome Extension

## An application to help kids with spelling! Developed by the CAST team at Boise State University.

## Overview

###

## Setting Up the Development Environment
### 1. Clone this project into a local directory from its main repository.

### 2. In the terminal, use the `$ npm init` command in the the main  project directory to initiate npm package management with the following specifications:
- package name: default
- version number: default or as appropriate
- git repository: leave blank
- keywords: leave blank
- license: default (MIT) or as appropriate

    #### Press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to select `yes` and complete initialization.

### 3. Also in the main project directory, install necessary module and package dependencies with all but react and react-dom as dev dependencies.
- #### Packages
    - react
    - react-dom
    - webpack
    - webpack-cli
    - html-webpack-plugin
    - copy-webpack-plugin
    - webpack-merge
    - @babel/core
    - babel-loader
    - @babel/preset-env
    - @babel/preset-react
    - style-loader
    - css-loader
    - file-loader

    #### The following terminal commands can be utilized to install the above dependendies:

    To install react:
    
        $ npm install react react-dom

    <br />

    To install webpack:

        $ npm install webpack webpack-cli html-webpack-plugin copy-webpack-plugin webpack-merge --save-dev

    <br />

    To install babel:

        $ npm install @babel/core babel-loader @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react --save-dev

    <br />

    To install additional necessary dependencies:

        $ npm install style-loader css-loader file-loader --save-dev

    <br />

### 4. Generate a distribution file to load for testing or publish to the web store following the steps as detailed in the [Generating a Distribution File](#generating-a-distribution-file) section below.

<br />

### 5. On [Google's Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/), create new OAuth 2.0 Client ID Credentials and update the current Client ID in the `manifest.json` file.

1. #### Create new OAuth Client ID.
    - #### Type: Chrome Extension
    - #### Name: User Choice
    - #### Item ID: Chrome Extension ID 

        This Chrome Extension ID can be found in `Details` tab created once the `dist` directory of an unpacked extension is loaded into the `My Extensions` page on Google Chrome. More on generating said directory is below.

    - #### <ins>**IF PUBLISHING To Google Chrome Web Store:**</ins> 

        App ownership can be verified to the applicable Google account hosting the Chrome Extension, once published.

2. #### Update existing Client ID in `manifest.json` file.

    Replace the string in the `client_id` section under the `oauth2` header of the `manifest.json` file with the Client ID generated after the step above.

    <ins>**NOTE:**</ins> A new distribution file will need to be generated after updating the OAuth 2.0 Client ID for the extension to be functional.

<br />

### After following the steps above, the Chrome Extension `dist` directory should be ready for testing or publishing, provided it is complete and functional.

<br />

## Generating a Distribution File

### To create a distribution file that can be uploaded for testing or published for download, the following command must be run from the main directory of the project:

    $ npm run build

### This command will generate a usable `dist` directory within the primary home project directory that can then be uploaded and distributed.

### This command will need to be re-run after any alterations or edits are made to the source code and the `dist` directory will have to be reuploaded to reflect those changes in a web browser. Re-running the build command will completely overwrite the previously generated destination `dist` folder. The previous version of the directory will be lost but can be regenerated by reverting back to the code state as it was when it was generated.

### <ins>**IMPORTANT:**</ins> Because Webpack is used to export all packages and source code files once they are compiled as vanilla JS files, all package, file, variable, class, and path references must match the post-export, output `dist` directory schema. That is to say, for example, despite the relative file paths between `manifest.json` and `/src` files in the original project directory, the path references must be written in the code, pre-export, to reflect their location, post-export, in the final `dist` directory. As stated, this includes export settings in the Webpack config files, all inter-file references, etc.